web/content/_index.md, before:

+++
layout = 'single'
title = 'SMT-COMP 2024'
+++

The _19th International Satisfiability Modulo Theories Competition (SMT-COMP 2024)_ is part of the
[SMT Workshop 2024](https://smt-workshop.cs.uiowa.edu/2024),
affiliated with [CAV-36](https://i-cav.org/2024).
The SMT Workshop will include a block of time to
present the competitors and results of the competition.

<!-- ### News -->

<!-- {{< news >}} -->

### Key dates

- **April 13** Deadline for new benchmark contributions
- **May 11** Final versions of competition tools (used by the organizers to run the participating solvers)
- **May 27** Deadline for first versions of participating solvers (for all tracks), including preliminary system descriptions
- **June 8** Deadline for final versions of participating solvers, including final system descriptions
- **July 22–23** SMT Workshop (presentation of results)

### Organizers

- [Martin Bromberger](https://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/departments/automation-of-logic/people/martin-bromberger) (chair) - MPI für Informatik, Germany
- [François Bobot](https://github.com/bobot) - CEA List, France
- [Martin Jonáš](https://fi.muni.cz/~xjonas) - Masaryk University, Czechia

SMT-COMP 2024 is organized under the direction of the SMT Steering
Committee.

### Acknowledgment

- [Dirk Beyer](https://www.sosy-lab.org/people/beyer/) (VerifierCloud)
- [Aaron Stump](http://homepage.divms.uiowa.edu/~astump/) (StarExec)
- [Clark Barrett](http://theory.stanford.edu/~barrett/),
  [Pascal Fontaine](https://members.loria.fr/PFontaine/),
  [Aina Niemetz](https://cs.stanford.edu/~niemetz/),
  [Mathias Preiner](https://cs.stanford.edu/~preiner/), and
  [Hans-Jörg Schurr](https://team.inria.fr/veridis/schurr/)
  ([smt-lib](http://smtlib.cs.uiowa.edu/index.shtml) maintenance)
- Robert Jones and [Benjamin F Jones](https://github.com/benjaminfjones) (Cloud and Parallel Tracks AWS Support)

Commit message:

Website 2025 (#138)
* Archive 2024

* Switch to 2025.

* Fix whitespace.

* Update one extra year mention.

* Remove mention of Amazon.

* Add news.

* Remove Starexec acknowledgement.

* Rename Verifier cloud to its new name.

---------

Co-authored-by: Martin Jonáš <martin.jonas@mail.muni.cz>

web/content/_index.md, after:

+++
layout = 'single'
title = 'SMT-COMP 2025'
+++

The _20th International Satisfiability Modulo Theories Competition (SMT-COMP 2025)_ is part of the
[SMT Workshop 2025](https://smt-workshop.cs.uiowa.edu/2025),
affiliated with [SAT-25](http://satisfiability.org/SAT25/).
The SMT Workshop will include a block of time to
present the competitors and results of the competition.

### News

{{< news >}}

### Key dates

- **April 12** Deadline for new benchmark contributions
- **May 31** Final versions of competition tools (used by the organizers to run the participating solvers)
- **June 13** Deadline for first versions of participating solvers (for all tracks), including preliminary system descriptions
- **June 27** Deadline for final versions of participating solvers, including final system descriptions
- **August 10–11** SMT Workshop (presentation of results)

### Organizers

- [Martin Jonáš](https://fi.muni.cz/~xjonas) (chair) - Masaryk University, Czechia
- [François Bobot](https://github.com/bobot) - CEA List, France
- [David Déharbe](https://daviddeharbe.github.io/) - CLEARSY, France
- [Dominik Winterer](https://wintered.github.io/) - ETH Zurich, Switzerland

SMT-COMP 2025 is organized under the direction of the SMT Steering
Committee.

### Acknowledgment

- [Dirk Beyer](https://www.sosy-lab.org/people/beyer/) (BenchCloud instance at [LMU](https://www.lmu.de/en/))
- [Clark Barrett](http://theory.stanford.edu/~barrett/),
  [Pascal Fontaine](https://members.loria.fr/PFontaine/),
  [Aina Niemetz](https://cs.stanford.edu/~niemetz/),
  [Mathias Preiner](https://cs.stanford.edu/~preiner/), and
  [Hans-Jörg Schurr](https://team.inria.fr/veridis/schurr/)
  ([smt-lib](http://smtlib.cs.uiowa.edu/index.shtml) maintenance)
