======================================================================

    11th International Satisfiability Modulo Theories Competition
                            (SMT-COMP'16)

                            July 2, 2016
                          Coimbra, Portugal

                          CALL FOR COMMENTS
                         CALL FOR BENCHMARKS
                     PRELIMINARY CALL FOR SOLVERS

======================================================================

SMT-COMP is the annual competition among Satisfiability Modulo Theories
(SMT) solvers. The goals of SMT-COMP are to spur solver advances,
collect benchmarks, and encourage adoption of the SMT-LIB standard,
through friendly competition.

SMT-COMP'16 will end in time to be described and the results announced
at the SMT Workshop (July 1-2), which is affiliated with the
International Joint Conference on Automated Reasoning (IJCAR 2016).

SMT-COMP'16 is organized under the direction of the SMT Steering
committee. The organizing team for SMT-COMP'16 is

    . Sylvain Conchon - Paris-Sud University, France
    . David Deharbe   - Clearsy, France & Federal University of Rio
                        Grande do Norte, Brazil
    . Tjark Weber     - Uppsala University, Sweden

This is a call for three things:

CALL FOR COMMENTS: 

The organizing team is preparing the schedule and rules for 2016.
Any comments you may have to improve the competition over past years
or to redirect its focus are welcome and will be considered by the
team. We particularly appreciate comments received until

    *** February 29, 2016. ***

For SMT-COMP'16, we are especially interested in comments regarding:

- Sequential vs. parallel performance: As in 2015, we plan to measure
  both CPU time and wall time. Solver developers are encouraged to
  prepare both sequential and parallel versions of their solvers.

- Benchmark selection: We will likely have sufficient computational
  resources to run all solvers on all eligible benchmarks. Therefore,
  we are interested in proposals for weighing the results so as to
  avoid over-representation of certain (large) benchmark families.

- Scope: We are considering to broaden the scope of SMT-COMP again. We
  might reinstate additional tracks, e.g., for unsat core extraction
  and proof-producing solvers. We are also considering a track that
  emphasizes fast answers, and would appreciate related scoring
  suggestions.

CALL FOR BENCHMARKS:

The competition is enhanced by new sets of benchmarks to add to those
already in use (and used in past competitions). A selection of
benchmarks in various categories is used for the competition (according
to rules that are currently being revised).

If you have benchmarks that you think would be useful to SMT-LIB and
SMT-COMP (and may be made public), please let us know as soon as
possible, even if the material is not quite ready. We will work in
close cooperation with the SMT-LIB maintainers to include such
benchmarks in the SMT-LIB in time to be taken into account for the
competition. The deadline for benchmarks to be used in the 2016
competition will be announced when the schedule and rules are
finalized.

PRELIMINARY CALL FOR SOLVERS:

A submission deadline for solvers will be announced along with the
rules. However, it is useful to the organizing team to know in advance
which and how many solvers may be entering. Thus we request that you
let us know at your earliest convenience if you think you may be
submitting one or more solvers to SMT-COMP'16, particularly if you
think there may be unusual circumstances.

COMMUNICATION:

The competition web-site will be at www.smtcomp.org.

Public email regarding the competition may be sent to
smt-comp@cs.nyu.edu.

Announcements will be sent on both smt-comp@cs.nyu.edu and
smt-lib@cs.nyu.edu.

Non-confidential email to the organizers may be sent to
smtcomp-discussion@lists.sourceforge.net.

Sincerely,
The organizing team
